.TH ERTID 1 "March, 1987" "Local material \(em IGPP/SIO"
.EQ
delim $$
.EN
.SH NAME
ertid \- compute body tides on an elastic Earth, or Munk-Cartwright coefficients
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fIErtid\fR generates the theoretical earth tides on an elastic Earth
(the ``body tides'')
or the Munk-Cartwright coefficients which describe the different
spherical harmonics of the tidal potential.
(For a fuller description of these,
see Munk and Cartwright [1966]).
The tides are computed
directly, by finding the positions of the Moon and Sun
at each time and computing the resulting earth-tide
at a given location.
.PP
After asking for the start time, end time, and sample interval
(the times are given [in Greenwich time] as year, day-number, and hour),
the program asks whether theoretical tides or Munk-Cartwright coefficients 
are wanted.
In the first case,
up to one gravity tide, two tilt tides, and three strain tides
may be generated for a particular location.
(As a special feature, if the number of gravity tides is \-1,
the potential height on a rigid Earth is generated instead
of the gravity tide).
The station coordinates needed for this option
are given in degrees and decimals, and should be geographic
(they are converted to geocentric internally to provide a partial
correction for ellipticity).
In the second case,
Munk-Cartwright coefficients of order 2 or 3 (or both),
and species 0 through 2 (or 3) may be computed and written out,
the series for each coefficient to a separate file,
with real and imaginary parts alternating.
All outputs (except for some diagnostic messages)
are to ASCII files.
Each data series is written to a separate file,
the filenames being read in one to a line.
The data are written out to the file with a 5(g13.5) format.
.PP
Because the solar and lunar positions are calculated anew for
each time, the  run time goes as the number of
points computed.
.SH UNITS
.PP
The units and sign conventions are:
for potential height, meters and positive up;
for gravity, \(*mgals (10$"" sup -8 $ m s$"" sup -2$)
and positive for a decrease in g;
for tilt, nanoradians and positive for motion of the plumb bob
in the azimuth given
(or a downwards ground tilt in that direction);
for strain, nanostrain and positive for extension.
.SH THEORY
.PP
The computation procedure roughly follows that given
by Munk and Cartwright (1966):
at each time point the positions of the Sun and Moon
are found
(more precisely,
the latitude and longitude of the sublunar
and subsolar points, and the ratio of true to mean distance);
from these, the tides at the place of observation can
be found directly.
Munk and Cartwright give the derivation for the potential
only;
the extension to gravity, tilt, and strain is contained
in Appendix C of Berger (1969).
The two main sources of error
are the imprecision of the solar and lunar ephemerides,
and the neglect of the Earth's ellipticity and rotation.
The ephemerides used are those of Harrison (1971) for the Moon,
with a simple theory for the Sun.
The tides computed by this program have been checked
against those gotten from a very
complete ephemeris by Cartwright and Taylor (1971)
and Cartwright and Edden (1973);
the level of disagreement was less than $10 sup -3$, which will be
important only for the most precise
observations of tidal gravity.
The program assumes a spherical Earth, with second and third-degree
parts of the potential only being taken into account.
.PP
It should be noted that this program computes,
not the full Earth tide, but that tide
less the amount contributed by the permanent deformation
(and potential) contributed 
by the Sun and Moon.
For gravity this quantity is known as the Honkasalo correction.
The program, in computing this quantity,
assumes that the elastic-Earth Love numbers apply.
(These are the degree-two
numbers, $h sub 2$ = 0.6114, $k sub 2$ = 0.304 and $l sub 2$ = 0.0832.)
.SH REFERENCES
.LP
Berger, J. (1969)
A Laser Earth Strain Meter,
Ph.D. Thesis, University of California, San Diego
.LP
Cartwright, D. E., and R. J. Tayler (1971).
New computations of the tide-generating potential,
\fIGeophys. J. Roy. Astron. Soc.\fP, \fB23\fP, 45-73.
.LP
Cartwright, D. E., and A. C. Edden (1973).
Corrected tables of tidal harmonics,
\fIGeophys. J. Roy. Astron. Soc.\fP, \fB33\fP, 253-264.
.LP
Harrison, J. C. (1971).
New computer programs for the calculation of Earth tides,
Internal Report, Cooperative Institute for Research in
Environmental Sciences, University of Colorado.
.LP
Munk, W. H., and D. E. Cartwright (1966),
Tidal Spectroscopy and Prediction,
\fIPhil. Trans. Roy. Soc., Ser. A., \fB259\fR, 533-581.
.\" .LP
.\" Wahr, J. (1981).
.\" Body tides on an elliptical, rotating, elastic and oceanless Earth,
.\" \fIGeophys. J. Roy. Astron. Soc.\fP, \fB64\fP, 677-703.
.SH AUTHORS
J. Berger, W. Farrell, J. C. Harrison, J. Levine, D. C. Agnew
