.TH HARPRP 1 "July 23, 1999" "Local material \(em IGPP/SIO"
.EQ
delim $$
.EN
.SH NAME
harprp \- extracts individual results from a tidal load file
.SH SYNOPSIS
.LP
\fBharprp o | g | p | z | v\fP
.LP
\fBharprp d | l | | s | t \fP  azimuth
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fIHarprp\fP reads from standard input, a load file (or set of them),
selects the numbers associated with a particular quantity,
and writes out a file of harmonic constants suitable for tidal
prediction by \fIhartid\fP.
The designators (on the command line) are:
.IP \fBo\fP
ocean-tide height; units are meters.
In this case only, the ``load file'' is assumed to have only one entry
(per constituent), that being for the ocean tide; such a file is produced
by \fIoclook\fP.
.IP \fBg\fP
gravity; units are \(*mgal, positive for decreasing $g$.
.IP \fBp\fP
potential height, relative to the surface of the Earth;
units are millimeters, positive for up.
.IP \fBz\fP
vertical displacement; units are millimeters, positive for up.
.IP \fBd\fP
horizontal displacement at azimuth \fIazimuth\fP (given in degrees,
clockwise from North);
units are millimeters.
.IP \fBl\fP
extensional strain at azimuth \fIazimuth\fP (given in degrees); units are
nanostrain.
.IP \fBv\fP
volume strain (for Poisson's ratio 0.25); units are
nanostrain.
.IP \fBs\fP
shear strain at azimuth \fIazimuth\fP (given in degrees); units are
nanostrain (tensor strain).
.IP \fBt\fP
tilt at azimuth \fIazimuth\fP (given in degrees); units are nanoradians.
.PP
The first two lines of the output file indicate that the phases are local,
and give the longitude of the station.
The subsequent lines give the Cartwright-Tayler version of the Doodson code
for the tidal constituent, and the amplitude and phase.
The final line gives an impossible Cartwright-Tayler code, to indicate EOF.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fIhartid\fP
.SH AUTHOR
D. C. Agnew
