.TH HARTID 1 "April 1987 (rev Feb 2005)" "Local material \(em IGPP/SIO"
.de bx
\(br\|\\$1\|\(br\l'|0\(rn'\l'|0\(ul'
..
.EQ
delim $$
.EN
.SH NAME
hartid \- predicts tides from harmonic constants
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBhartid\fP year [day-of-year | month day] hr min sec nterms samp
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Given the ``harmonic constants'' for a tidal series,
\fIhartid\fP computes the predicted tides for a specified time.
The harmonic constants (in the format specified below) are
read in from the standard input, and the predicted tides written
to the standard output.
The computation (described in more detail below) infers the value of
small constituents from those of larger ones, so only a few are needed
to give a good result.
The arguments on the command line are:
.IP year\0day\0hr\0min\0sec
The time of the first output value, in Greenwich time (UTC);
the date may be given either as day of the year, or as
month and day (Gregorian calendar).
There are no explicit restrictions on the range of
admissable dates, but the relevant formulae for the
fundamental tidal arguments will be increasingly inaccurate before 1700.
.IP nterms
The number of values to be written out
.IP samp
The sample interval, in seconds.
.SH HARMONIC CONSTANTS
.PP
The harmonic constants are often prepared by \fIharprp\fP.
The format of this file is:
.IP 1.
The first line should contain either the letter ``l'' if the phases
will be given relative to the local potential (as with the $kappa$
of traditional tidal analysis) or a ``g'' if the phases
will be given relative to the Greenwich potential (as with the $G$
of traditional tidal analysis).
\fBNOTE,\fP however, that phases are to be given with lags regarded as
.bx \fBnegative\fP;
this is the reverse of the traditional usage.
.IP 2.
If the first line contains an ``l'', the second should contain the
East longitude in degrees of the locality;
for Greenwich phases this entry is omitted.
.IP 3.
The following lines (starting with the third for local phase,
the second for Greenwich phase)
contain the specification of the tidal constituent
(its Cartwright code\(emsee below),
followed by the amplitude (in whatever units are appropriate)
and phase (of whatever type, in degrees).
These lines are read with a formatted read statement,
the format being (6i2,2f9.0).
The first character of each line is therefore a blank
(since the first number is always a single-digit integer).
The only exception is the last line, which should simply contain a
``\-1'' at the beginning;
this signals the end-of-list to the program.
A typical (though short) file might look like:
.RS
.sp
.nf
.na
\f[CR]l
\-116.455
\ 1\-1\ 0\ 0\ 0\ 0\ 7.41000\ \-78.0
\ 1\ 1\ 0\ 0\ 0\ 0\ 11.7900\ \-94.0
\ 2\ 0\ 0\ 0\ 0\ 0\ 16.0600\ \-287.0
\ 2\ 2\-2\ 0\ 0\ 0\ 5.01000\ \-282.0
\-1\fP
.fi
.ad
.RE
.PP
The program expects to be provided with at least one harmonic
constant for both the diurnal and semidiurnal bands.
Long-period tides (excluding semiannual and longer periods)
will be included if any harmonic constants are provided for
long-period tides;
similarly, if the constants are given for $roman M sub 3$,
terdiurnal tides will be predicted.
.SH THEORY
In computing a series,
\fIhartid\fP
uses a larger number of tidal constituents than are input;
the amplitudes of these additional constituents are found
by spline interpolation of the admittance
(the ratio of the potential amplitude to that observed,
or in this case found from the loading computation).
This automatically allows
for the various nodal modulations.
The fits are different for each species; note that if there
are 3 or fewer harmonics for a species, a piecewise straight-line fit is used.
A total of 79 long-period, 154 diurnal, and 109 semidiurnal
constituents are used in the prediction (but no overtides).
This corresponds to a cutoff
0.076% of the largest long-period tide ($roman M sub f$),
0.013% of the largest diurnal tide ($roman K sub 1$), and
0.008% of the largest semidiurnal tide ($roman M sub 2$).
The rms accuracy should be about this, but at some times
smaller missing constituents could combine to give a larger error.
It should be noted that a number of the
constituents are in fact nodal ``satellites'' to larger ones.
Also, the long-period constituents include the nodal tide,
which can produce an apparent nonzero mean
if any long-period tides are specified.
.SH
TIDAL CODES
.PP
The Cartwright codes and Darwin symbols for the largest tides are:
.sp
.nf
.na
0\ 2\ 0\ 0\ 0\ 0\ $roman M sub f$	0\ 1\ 0\-1\ 0\ 0\ $roman M sub m$
.sp
1\ 1\ 0\ 0\ 0\ 0\ $roman K sub 1$	1\-1\ 0\ 0\ 0\ 0\ $roman O sub 1$	1\ 1\-2\ 0\ 0\ 0\ $roman P sub 1$	1\-2\ 0\ 1\ 0\ 0\ $roman Q sub 1$	1\ 2\ 0\-1\ 0\ 0\ $roman J sub 1$	1\ 0\ 0\ 1\ 0\ 0\ $roman M sub 1$
1\-2\ 2\-1\ 0\ 0\ $rho sub 1$	1\ 3\ 0\ 0\ 0\ 0\ $roman OO sub 1$	1\-3\ 0\ 2\ 0\ 0\ $2 roman Q sub 1$
.sp
2\ 0\ 0\ 0\ 0\ 0\ $roman M sub 2$	2\ 2\-2\ 0\ 0\ 0\ $roman S sub 2$	2\-1\ 0\ 1\ 0\ 0\ $roman N sub 2$	2\ 2\ 0\ 0\ 0\ 0\ $roman K sub 2$	2\-1\ 2\-1\ 0\ 0\ $nu sub 2$	2\-2\ 2\ 0\ 0\ 0\ $mu sub 2$
2\ 1\ 0\-1\ 0\ 0\ $roman L sub 2$	2\ 2\-3\ 0\ 0\ 1\ $roman T sub 2$	2\-2\-0\ 2\ 0\ 0\ $2 roman N sub 2$	2\-3\ 2\ 1\ 0\ 0\ $epsilon sub 2$	2\ 3\ 0\-1\ 0\ 0\ $nu sub 2$
.\" .sp
.\" 3\ 0\ 0\ 0\ 0\ 0\ $roman M sub 3$
.sp
.fi
.ad
.SH AUTHOR
D. C. Agnew
