.TH MAPCHECK 1 "March 20, 1996" "Local material \(em IGPP/SIO"
.SH NAME
mapcheck \- examine fine-scale land-sea database
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBmapcheck r\fP lat long dist
.sp
\fBmapcheck h\fP lat long
.sp
\fBmapcheck o\fP lat long
.sp
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
The program \fBmapcheck\fP is designed to
read from the fine-scale land-sea data files to allow the user
to examine what these files give in the vicinity of a particular
point;
potentially important, since
this is used to determine the distribution of the tide
close to a station for the loading computation.
The files (\fIlndsea.bit\fP and \fIlndsea.ind\fP)
must be present in the directory in which the program is being run.
The program has three options, all of which require that station
coordinates (latitude and longitude) be included on the command lines.
The options are:
.IP \fBr\fP
Write to standard output a rough ``printer-plot''
of the land and sea distribution within a distance \fIdist\fP of the
station; \fIdist\fP should be in kilometers.
In this plot, - means land.
.IP \fBr\fP
Write to standard output a ``printer-plot''
of a 1\(de by 1\(de area to
show the local structure of the land-sea file.
The lower left corner of the area will be at the integer
latitude and longitude closest to the values given on the
command line.
The file has a resolution of 1/64\(de and what is shown is a plot
with 64 by 64 points; each point in the file thus corresponds to 1 ``pixel''
of the database.
.IP \fBo\fP
The program writes out the distance to the nearest ocean
from the point specified on the command line.
.SH DATA FILES
.PP
The data files provide a binary representation of
the land-sea distribution of the
entire world, based on the version created from the World Vector
Shoreline for Version 3 of the GMT
mapping tools.
See the supplementary documentation to the loading programs for more
details.
.SH AUTHOR
D. C. Agnew
