.TH NLOADF 1 "July 23, 1999" "Local material \(em IGPP/SIO"
.de bx
\(br\|\\$1\|\(br\l'|0\(rn'\l'|0\(ul'
..
.EQ
delim $$
.EN
.SH NAME
nloadf \- compute ocean loads at a site, or give the grid used to do so
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBnloadf\fP stname lat long ht modelfile greenfile \fBg\ |\ l\fP [polyfile [+\ |\ \-] ]
.sp
\fBnloadf\fP stname lat long ht modelfile greenfile \fBm\fP [dist] [polyfile [+\ |\ \-] ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fINloadf\fP is a program for computing ocean tidal loads at a location,
given (1) a model of the ocean tides specified on a latitude-longitude
grid; (2) a Green function for the response of the earth (which
also includes the information about the intervals of
integration); (3) a file specifying the distribution of land and sea; and
(4) a ``polygon file'', which specifies what regions are and are not to
be included in the convolution.
Items (1-3) are required, the first two being given on the command line
and the third being hardwired into the program.
Item (4) is optional, and when present is specified on the command line.
.PP
The arguments on the command line are (with R for required, O for optional):
.IP \fIstname\fP 8
(R) an ascii string givening the station name; it must
not contain any blanks or be longer than 80 characters.
.IP \fIlat\fP
(R) the North latitude (in decimal degrees) of the station.
.IP \fIlong\fP
(R) the East longitude (in decimal degrees) of the station.
.IP \fIht\fP
(R) the elevation (in meters above or below sea level) of the station.
.IP \fImodelfile\fP
(R) the name
of a file specifying the tidal height for a global of regional
model of a particular tidal constituent, in ``standard form''.
(See the supplementary documentation for a fuller description).
.IP \fIgreenfile\fP
(R) the name
of a file specifying the Green function for a particular Earth model,
along with the distance range(s) and step size(s) to be used in the
convolution, and whether or not the land-sea file is to be used to
determine if ocean is present or not.
(See the supplementary documentation for a fuller description).
.IP \fBg\fP,\0\fBl\fP,\0\fBm\fP
(R) determines the nature of the output.
If \fBg\fP or \fBl\fP, the loading
results are written to standard output.
A \fBg\fP means that the phases
are Greenwich phase, \fBBUT with lags
.bx negative\fP
(the reverse
of the usual phase convention in ocean tides).
An \fBl\fP
means that the
the phases
are in local phase at the site, again with lags negative.
An \fBm\fP
causes the program to write to standard output
the coordinates of the
corners of the cells used for the convolution, in a form
(lat and long separated by impossible values) that is often suitable for
plotting. This output is quite voluminous and should always be redirected to a file.
.IP \fIdist\fP
(O) If the \fBm\fP option is chosen, this is the maximum distance
(in degrees) to which to cell coordinates will be given.
.IP \fIpolyfile\fP
(O) The name of a ``polygon file'' which specifies regions
into which points must (and/or must not) fall in order to be included in
the convolution.
By setting such files up correctly, it is easy to assure that a convolution
done with a global model does not include a marginal sea for which a 
separate model is being used (and that the model of the marginal sea
has no overlap with the global model).
If a + or \- is included following the name of this file, it overrides
the instructions in that file for which polygons to include: if a + is
given, all polygons in the file are included; if a \-, all are excluded.
(See the supplementary documentation for a fuller description).
.SH OUTPUT
.LP
The program writes the results of its computations to standard output,
along with a set of ``header lines'' which describe what went into the
computation.
These header lines are usually more voluminous than the results; experience
has shown that it is easy to lose track of how a computation is done,
so that it is worthwhile to make the results self-documenting.
Both result and header lines are identified by a letter in the first column,
lowercase for the result lines.
The ones currently output are:
.IP S
The station name and coordinates; format (3x,a40,3x,2f10.4,f10.0).
.IP O
The tidal model: the Darwin symbol, Doodson number (in Cartwright-Tayler
form), and a description of the model; format (2x,a4,5x,6i2,5x,a50).
.IP G
The Green function. The first line describes the Earth model used;
subsequent lines describe what radial spacing was used, and whether
the detailed land-sea model, or the ocean model, was used to determine
the land-sea boundary.
.IP P
If a polygon file is used, the first line gives the description (from the
polygon file) of what the file contains;
subsequent lines show what polygons were included or excluded
(that is, what areas within them were included or excluded).
.IP C
This code gives information about the convolution. One line gives
the time at which the computation was done; a second indicates how
far away, and where, the closest nonzero load was found; and a third
summarizes information on how many cells (if any) 
were found to be ocean from the land-sea
model but had an amplitude of
zero from the ocean model, even after trying to interpolate from cells
nearby.
.IP L
Describes the phase convention.
.IP X
A terminator line (used by \fIloadcomb\fP)
to indicate the end of the header lines.
.IP g
The gravity load tide, amplitude and phase (as are all the loads), with
the amplitude in microgal; format (10x,2f10.4).
The convention is that positive accelerations are upwards; that is,
they correspond to a decrease in the local acceleration of gravity.
.IP p
The induced potential load tides
(actually, potential height), amplitude and phase, with
the amplitude in millimeters; format (10x,2f10.4).
The convention is that positive values correspond to
upward motion of the equipotential surface.
Note that this is potential height relative to the Earth's
surface, not in a fixed reference frame: this is the
potential which enters into the tide-generating equations.
.IP d
The displacement load tides, alternating amplitude and phase, with
the amplitude in millimeters; format (10x,6f10.4).
The displacements are given in order east, north, and up; note that
the displacements given by some other programs (and used in the MERIT
and successor standards) are south, west, and up, as well as having
lags positive.
.IP t
The tilt load tides, alternating amplitude and phase, with
the amplitude in nanoradians; format (10x,4f10.4).
The tilts are given in order east and north, with positive tilt being
that a plumb line would move in the direction given.
.IP s
The strain load tides, alternating amplitude and phase, with
the amplitude in nanostrain; format (10x,6f10.4).
The strains are given in order east extension, north extension, and
tensor shear ($ e sub EN$).
.SH EXAMPLES
\fBnloadf MDO1 30.6805 255.9849 2095 m2.csr3tr green.gbav.std l
.sp
nloadf HAYS 42.617 \-71.483 0 m2.bfund green.gbav.std l poly.bfund +
.sp
nloadf HAYS 42.617 \-71.483 0 m2.csr3tr green.gbav.std l poly.bfund \-
.sp
nloadf PFO 33.609 \-116.455 1280 m2.csr3tr green.gbav.std m 20 poly.cortez \-
.sp
nloadf PFO 33.609 \-116.455 1280 m2.cortez green.gbav.std m 20 poly.cortez +\fP 
.sp
.LP
The first example shows the simplest (and usual) case where the convolution
is done for a single tidal model.
The next two lines show how a marginal sea (in this case the Gulf of
Maine and Bay fo Fundy) would be included.
On the second line the convolution is done for a model for this sea,
with a polygon file being used to exclude any overlap with the global
model;
on the third a global model is used, with the polygon file set to
exclude any overlap with the model for this sea.
To get the final results, the outputs would have to be redirected to
separate files and then added with \fIloadcom\fP.
The fourth and fifth lines
output the load-cell grids for a similar case; these are the
lines used to produce the grids in Figures 1c and 1d of the manual.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fIloadcomb\fP
.SH AUTHOR
D. C. Agnew
