.TH OCLOOK 1 "9 January 1996" "Local material \(em IGPP/SIO"
.de bx
\(br\|\\$1\|\(br\l'|0\(rn'\l'|0\(ul'
..
.SH NAME
oclook \- provides information from an ocean-tide file
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBoclook\fP modelfile lat long \fBd | o\fP [polyfile]
.sp
\fBoclook\fP modelfile slat nlat wlong elong \fBg\fP [polyfile]
.sp
\fBoclook\fP modelfile slat nlat wlong elong \fBr | i | a | p\fP [polyfile]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
\fIOclook\fP is writes to the standard output information about
what the ocean-tide value is for a given ocean-tide file, whose name is
given on the command line as \fImodelfile\fP.
A file which excludes or includes regions through predefined polygons
may also be included, as the last argument.
.PP
If a single position is given (as north latitude and east longitude), the
output may be in one of two forms:
.IP \fBd\fP
In this case the program writes out complete information about the
tidal data for this location. The first line of output looks like
(for the M2 Schwiderski model, at 33\(deN, 120\(deW):
.br
.nf
.na
.sp .5
\ \ \ \ \ Cell indices are   241   57 (  20761) with fractional locations  \-.500  .500
.fi
.ad
.sp .5
which gives the cell of the model, indexed both
as a matrix (by column and row), and as a 1-d vector.
The ``fractional location'' is the coordinates within the cell, relative
to the center, with the cell dimensions being 1 by 1.
The next lines give the tidal amplitudes in several forms:
.br
.sp .5
.nf
.na
\ \ \ \ \ Cell amps (R&I,[amp&ph]) are     \-.3800     .2350
\ \ \ \ \ \ [     .4468  148.2665 ]
\ \ \ \ \ Fine-grid (interpolated) amps (R&I,[amp&ph]) are     \-.3973     .2105
\ \ \ \ \ \ [     .4496  152.0813 ]
.fi
.ad
.sp .5
where the first of each pair of lines gives the real and imaginary
part, and the second the amplitude (in meters) and Greenwich phase.
\fBNOTE\fP that in this, alone amongst these programs, the phase is
.bx \fBpositive\fP
for a lag, thus corresponding to the phase convention usually
used for ocean tides: this is thus, in the usual notation, \fIG\fP.
The amplitude is given first for the value in the cell, and secondly
for the result of bilinear interpolation to the point given.
.IP \fBo\fP
In this case the program writes out information in the style of a
``load file'' produced by \fInloadf\fP, but with the only ``load''
being the tidal height in meters; for the example given above this
line of output would be
.br
.sp .5
.nf
.na
\ \ \ \ \ \o              .4496 \-152.0813
.fi
.ad
.sp .5
Note that the phase is now given in the other convention (lags negative),
and that this is the interpolated value.
.PP
If a range of latitudes and longitudes are given the program lists
parameters related to the cells which fall within the specified
range.
The options are:
.IP \fBg\fP
Write to standard output the coordinates of the corners of the cells
(ordered as longitude and latitude),
with each set of corner coordinates (five in all) separated by a
geographically impossible value.
When plotted, these values will thus draw the grid of cells.
This output is quite lengthy and should be sent to a file.
.IP \fBr\fP
Write to standard output the coordinates of the centers of the cells,
each with the real value of the tide (in meters) for that point.
.IP \fBi\fP
Write to standard output the coordinates of the centers of the cells,
each with the imaginary value of the tide for that point
(in meters, Greenwich phase, lag \fBpositive\fP).
.IP \fBa\fP
Write to standard output the coordinates of the centers of the cells,
each with the amplitude of the tide (in meters) for that point.
.IP \fBp\fP
Write to standard output the coordinates of the centers of the cells,
each with the phase of the tide for that point
(in degrees, Greenwich phase, lag \fBpositive\fP).
.PP
For example, running the program with option \fBp\fP, and the range
being from 32\(deN to 34\(deN, \-122\(deE to \-120\(deE, for the
Schwiderski M2 model, gives:
.sp
.nf
.na
\ \ \ \ \ \ \-121.5000   33.5000   165.141 
\ \ \ \ \ \ \-121.5000   32.5000   159.497
\ \ \ \ \ \ \-121.5000   31.5000   153.919
\ \ \ \ \ \ \-120.5000   33.5000   159.507
\ \ \ \ \ \ \-120.5000   32.5000   150.027
\ \ \ \ \ \ \-120.5000   31.5000   149.477
\ \ \ \ \ \ \-119.5000   33.5000   151.013
\ \ \ \ \ \ \-119.5000   32.5000   148.267
\ \ \ \ \ \ \-119.5000   31.5000   142.160
.fi
.ad
.sp
The next to last line gives the phase shown for the \fBd\fP option above.
.PP
The next two lines show the commands used to generate the model grids
shown in Figures 1a and 1b of the supplementary documentation.
.nf
.na
.sp
\fBoclook m2.csr3tr 20 32 \-117 \-105 g
.sp
oclook m2.cortez 20 32 \-117 \-105 g\fP
.fi
.ad
.SH AUTHOR
D. C. Agnew
